Update the compose examples to be ready to upgrade for the next release (#1038)
owncloud/docs-ocis: modules/ROOT/partials/depl-examples/ubuntu-compose/shared-setup.adoc

docker volume rm {ocis_wopi}_ocis-config {ocis_wopi}_ocis-data
----

== Updating and Upgrading

=== Updating

// for testing
//:version-type: production

ifeval::["{version-type}" == "rolling"]

> For rolling releases, the following steps are essential to avoid breaking the setup. This is because rolling releases depend on consecutive updates to be taken.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For rolling releases, the following steps are essential to avoid breaking the setup. This is because rolling releases depend on all updates being done consecutively.
```

If new Infinite Scale releases are available, you *must not* skip any version in between the current running and the latest available rolling release for internal update reasons. All versions need to be downloaded and started one time. For more details see the https://owncloud.dev/ocis/release_roadmap/#updating-and-overlap[Updating and Overlap] description in the developer documentation.

* Each upgrade consists of a set of commands:
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo docker compose stop \
sudo docker compose pull \
sudo docker compose up -d --remove-orphans
----

* If there is no release gap, run the command block once.

* For *any* https://owncloud.dev/ocis/release_roadmap/#dates[release gap], you must run the command block from above once and set the respective release in the `OCIS_DOCKER_TAG` _before_ pulling. Use no value for the last release, it defaults to `latest`.

> * Check if there are any Infinite Scale config changes. To do so, run a `ocis init --diff` plus apply any patches. The detailed how-to is described in the xref:migration/upgrading-ocis.adoc[Upgrading Infinite Scale] guide for 7.0.0. When done, bring the deployment up.

Reviewer: Do you want to hard-code 7.0.0 here?
Or remove " for 7.0.0"
Or put some variable that references the current major release number?

Author: There will be a new branch for v7 based on master. I have currently fixed that to that version so it is locked. An attribute defining the number dynamically is preferred, but I have not found a solution to cover all variants in master and (upcoming) branches. This is quite complex...

* Finally, you can remove any old images if no longer used.

> Note that we advice to manually check if the deployment source has changed. If this is the case, stop the deployment, backup your existing deployment source/configuration and update the xref:download-and-transfer-the-example[deployment sources], then re-apply your configuration settings and bring the deployment up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that we advise to manually check if the deployment source has changed. If this is the case, stop the deployment, backup your existing deployment source/configuration and update the xref:download-and-transfer-the-example[deployment sources], then re-apply your configuration settings and bring the deployment up.
```

endif::[]

ifeval::["{version-type}" != "rolling"]

Follow these steps to update between production releases:

For patch releases only!::
+
--

> These commands will stop the deployment, updates all images and starts the deployment again. This works because the relevant `xxx_TAG` variables in the `.env` file are set to `latest` by default while others have hardcoded versions set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These commands will stop the deployment, update all images and start the deployment again. This works because the relevant `xxx_TAG` variables in the `.env` file are set to `latest` by default while others have hardcoded versions set.
```

[source,bash]
----
sudo docker compose stop \
sudo docker compose pull \
sudo docker compose up -d --remove-orphans
----
{empty}
--

endif::[]

=== Upgrading

> For all major and minor releases including from rolling to production::

Reviewer: rolling is often ahead of production.
I suppose that an upgrade from rolling to production is only allowed just when a brand-new production release happens (e.g. upgrade from some 6.*.* rolling release to 7.0.0)
Is that correct? If so, then do we mention that somewhere?

Author: Good point, I added "former" before rolling.

> For all major and minor releases including from rolling to production::

Author: ```suggestion
For all major and minor releases including from former rolling to production::
```

+
--
* Stop the deployment with:
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo docker compose stop
----

* If upgrading from rolling to production, change the `OCIS_DOCKER_IMAGE` environment variable from `owncloud/ocis-rolling` to `owncloud/ocis` in the `.env` file.

* Follow the respective xref:migration/upgrading-ocis.adoc[Upgrading Infinite Scale] guide.

* Backup your existing deployment source/configuration and update the xref:download-and-transfer-the-example[deployment sources] - if they have been changed, re-apply your configuration settings.

> * Re-pull the deployment. This will update all images that versions might have changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Re-pull the deployment. This will update all images with any versions that might have changed.
```
